hello fashion sellers in today's
tutorial we're going to be looking at
the differential feed on a serger I'm
Colleen G Lee and this is fashion sewing
blogtv how do we identify a serger that
has a differential feed the needle plate
you will find there are two feed dogs a
front and a rear a differential feed is
designed that they both work together
but slightly different speeds on the
side of your serger you'll find two
dials the first one is all to do with
your stitch length and I've got a little
sample here so the closer it is it's one
and the more space you want for your
stitching is going to be for now for the
second dial this is what controls your
differential feed for your fabrics that
you're using and these two diagrams here
this is telling you you need more
stretch in your fabric so what you will
do is move your dial to perhaps two and
it goes from naught point seven to two
so it is important you actually test
before you actually go ahead and do your
work that you need to on your sewing
project the second one is telling you
that there's too much compression and
you want to release that so it's all
about turning this dial up and down and
finding the correct number that will
work with a fabric before I put my
presser foot on I just want to give you
a quick demonstration how the two feed
dogs work you would align your fabric on
the first feed dog and as I said before
they go at different speeds but they
work together so what will happen is
that as you sew your thirst one natural
stretches your fabric a little bit and
it's traveling at a faster speed to the
rear and the rear kind of controls it by
bringing itself with the timing to make
sure that you don't get this dress that
will happen if there wasn't to feed dogs
now go to do a tester and then get my
fabric and the dials at the side of the
machine have been set on naught point
seven and the stitch length it can be
whatever you want it to be for me for
this demonstration I'm using it on four
so I get my fabric into position and
then I just go away
and this is a stretch fabric and as you
can see it is wavy and I want that to be
flat as possible if I just turn on the
sides you probably see it a little bit
there so I'm now going to demonstrate on
a second piece of fabric and I'm going
to change my differential feed which is
the lower wall to a larger number and
I'm just going to be using two so that
you can see the difference
and it should be nice and flat nice and
flat now this is the benefit of having a
differential feed as you can see with
the first tester I did you can see the
waviness that's happening to the fabric
and as you do with any practice run you
just need to make sure that the settings
on your differential feed will give you
the flatter edge here and that is what
you're looking for I'm now doing a test
sample on a fan woven fabric and this is
an organza and my setting is still out
too
so let's see what happens here later and
as you can see with the fan one there is
a lot of what you call blocking on the
edge and I'll get another sample and
I'll change my setting the differential
feed setting and that is going to be not
0.7 and we should see difference in
power the differential feeling candle to
fabric
okay and as you can see we've got a nice
beautifully finished edge as you can see
with the fine woven fabric when I had it
on the higher setting this is what
happens all the clock ring here is what
you don't want and when I go to the
correct setting and that I was happier
when you get is beautifully finished
edge well I hope you found that video
tutorial of help now it's important to
stress that if you are going to invest
in a serger and you are working with
different types of fabrics I would say
go for a differential feed because it
will help with those projects when you
need to work with different ways and
different fabrics if you have any
comments or queries please put me in the
comment box below and I'll see you next
time